docs/using.md, before:

---
parent: Welcome to Kiota
---

# Using the Kiota tool

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 -->

## How to install the tool

There are a variety of ways to install this tool:

- you can install Kiota as a [dotnet tool](generator/tool.md) from the GitHub packages feed.
- you can run Kiota in a [Docker container](generator/docker.md).
- you can build your own [Kiota executable](generator/build.md).
- you can download a Kiota executable from the [releases page](https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/releases).

Kiota accepts the following parameters during the generation.

```shell
kiota [--backing-store | -b]
      [--class-name | -c]
      [--deserializer | -ds]
      [--language | -l]
      [--loglevel | -ll]
      [--namespace-name | -n]
      [--openapi | -d]
      [--output | -o]
      [--serializer | -s]
```

## Optional parameters

### `--backing-store (-b)`

Enables backing store for models. Defaults to `false`.

```shell
kiota --backing-store
```

### `--class-name (-c)`

The class name to use for the core client class. Defaults to `ApiClient`.

#### Accepted values

The provided name MUST be a valid class name for the target language.

```shell
kiota --class-name MyApiClient
```

### `--deserializer (-ds)`

The fully qualified class names for deserializers. Defaults to the following values.

| Language   | Default deserializer                                            |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| C#         | `Microsoft.Kiota.Serialization.Json.JsonParseNodeFactory`       |
| Go         | `github.com/microsoft/kiota/serialization/go/json.JsonParseNodeFactory` |
| Java       | `com.microsoft.kiota.serialization.JsonParseNodeFactory`        |
| Ruby       | `microsoft_kiota_serialization/json_parse_node_factory`         |
| TypeScript | `@microsoft/kiota-serialization-json.JsonParseNodeFactory`      |

#### Accepted values

One or more module names that implements `IParseNodeFactory`.

```shell
kiota --deserializer Contoso.Json.CustomDeserializer
```

### `--language (-l)`

The target language for the generated code files. Defaults to `csharp`.

#### Accepted values

- `csharp`
- `go`
- `java`
- `php`
- `python`
- `ruby`
- `typescript`

```shell
kiota --language java
```

### `--loglevel (-ll)`

The log level to use when logging events to the main output. Defaults to `warning`.

#### Accepted values

- `critical`
- `debug`
- `error`
- `information`
- `none`
- `trace`
- `warning`

```shell
kiota --loglevel information
```

### `--namespace-name (-n)`

The namespace to use for the core client class specified with the `--class-name` option. Defaults to `ApiSdk`.

#### Accepted values

The provided name MUST be a valid module or namespace name for the target language.

```shell
kiota --namespace-name MyAppNamespace.Clients
```

### `--openapi (-d)`

The location of the OpenAPI description in JSON or YAML format to use to generate the SDK. Defaults to `./openapi.yml`.

#### Accepted values

A valid URI to an OpenAPI description in the local filesystem or hosted on an HTTPS server.

```shell
kiota --openapi https://contoso.com/api/openapi.yml
```

### `--output (-o)`

The output directory path for the generated code files. Defaults to `./output`.

#### Accepted values

A valid path to a directory.

```shell
kiota --output ./src/client
```

### `--serializer (-s)`

The fully qualified class names for deserializers. Defaults to the following values.

| Language   | Default deserializer                                            |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| C#         | `Microsoft.Kiota.Serialization.Json.JsonSerializationWriterFactory` |
| Go         | `github.com/microsoft/kiota/serialization/go/json.JsonSerializationWriterFactory` |
| Java       | `com.microsoft.kiota.serialization.JsonSerializationWriterFactory` |
| Ruby       | `microsoft_kiota_serialization/json_serialization_writer_factory` |
| TypeScript | `@microsoft/kiota-serialization-json.JsonSerializationWriterFactory` |

#### Accepted values

One or more module names that implements `ISerializationWriterFactory`.

```shell
kiota --serializer Contoso.Json.CustomSerializer
```

## Examples

```shell
kiota.exe -d ./mail.yml --language csharp -o ../somepath -n Contoso.ApiClient
```

## Adding an SDK to a project

First you will need to [install the tools necessary](requiredtools/index.md) to build the files generated by Kiota.

Commit message:

Combined installation methods into a single get started topic

docs/using.md, after:

---
parent: Welcome to Kiota
---

# Using the Kiota tool

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 -->

> **Note:** For information on installing Kiota, see [Get started with Kiota](get-started/index.md).

Kiota accepts the following parameters during the generation.

```shell
kiota [--backing-store | -b]
      [--class-name | -c]
      [--deserializer | -ds]
      [--language | -l]
      [--loglevel | -ll]
      [--namespace-name | -n]
      [--openapi | -d]
      [--output | -o]
      [--serializer | -s]
```

## Optional parameters

### `--backing-store (-b)`

Enables backing store for models. Defaults to `false`.

```shell
kiota --backing-store
```

### `--class-name (-c)`

The class name to use for the core client class. Defaults to `ApiClient`.

#### Accepted values

The provided name MUST be a valid class name for the target language.

```shell
kiota --class-name MyApiClient
```

### `--deserializer (-ds)`

The fully qualified class names for deserializers. Defaults to the following values.

| Language   | Default deserializer                                            |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| C#         | `Microsoft.Kiota.Serialization.Json.JsonParseNodeFactory`       |
| Go         | `github.com/microsoft/kiota/serialization/go/json.JsonParseNodeFactory` |
| Java       | `com.microsoft.kiota.serialization.JsonParseNodeFactory`        |
| Ruby       | `microsoft_kiota_serialization/json_parse_node_factory`         |
| TypeScript | `@microsoft/kiota-serialization-json.JsonParseNodeFactory`      |

#### Accepted values

One or more module names that implements `IParseNodeFactory`.

```shell
kiota --deserializer Contoso.Json.CustomDeserializer
```

### `--language (-l)`

The target language for the generated code files. Defaults to `csharp`.

#### Accepted values

- `csharp`
- `go`
- `java`
- `php`
- `python`
- `ruby`
- `typescript`

```shell
kiota --language java
```

### `--loglevel (-ll)`

The log level to use when logging events to the main output. Defaults to `warning`.

#### Accepted values

- `critical`
- `debug`
- `error`
- `information`
- `none`
- `trace`
- `warning`

```shell
kiota --loglevel information
```

### `--namespace-name (-n)`

The namespace to use for the core client class specified with the `--class-name` option. Defaults to `ApiSdk`.

#### Accepted values

The provided name MUST be a valid module or namespace name for the target language.

```shell
kiota --namespace-name MyAppNamespace.Clients
```

### `--openapi (-d)`

The location of the OpenAPI description in JSON or YAML format to use to generate the SDK. Defaults to `./openapi.yml`.

#### Accepted values

A valid URI to an OpenAPI description in the local filesystem or hosted on an HTTPS server.

```shell
kiota --openapi https://contoso.com/api/openapi.yml
```

### `--output (-o)`

The output directory path for the generated code files. Defaults to `./output`.

#### Accepted values

A valid path to a directory.

```shell
kiota --output ./src/client
```

### `--serializer (-s)`

The fully qualified class names for deserializers. Defaults to the following values.

| Language   | Default deserializer                                            |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| C#         | `Microsoft.Kiota.Serialization.Json.JsonSerializationWriterFactory` |
| Go         | `github.com/microsoft/kiota/serialization/go/json.JsonSerializationWriterFactory` |
| Java       | `com.microsoft.kiota.serialization.JsonSerializationWriterFactory` |
| Ruby       | `microsoft_kiota_serialization/json_serialization_writer_factory` |
| TypeScript | `@microsoft/kiota-serialization-json.JsonSerializationWriterFactory` |

#### Accepted values

One or more module names that implements `ISerializationWriterFactory`.

```shell
kiota --serializer Contoso.Json.CustomSerializer
```

## Examples

```shell
kiota.exe -d ./mail.yml --language csharp -o ../somepath -n Contoso.ApiClient
```

## Adding an SDK to a project

First you will need to [install the tools necessary](requiredtools/index.md) to build the files generated by Kiota.
